in the year 2016
there was the headline-grabbing
announcement that black lives matter was
receiving a donation of 100 million u.s.
dollars from the for foundation in the
United States of America legally any
charity that has more than a few
thousand dollars to its name has to file
what's called form 990 a type of tax
form for the government reporting how
much money they've got and what they're
doing with it in their filing for the
year 2017 they're showing only 89
thousand dollars in total spending only
twenty four thousand on executive
compensation zuv salaries for the people
who run this organization and the only
name you can find of someone receiving a
salary is robert ray Barnes Google as
much as you'd like if you look around
for robert ray barnes and black lives
matter about the only information you
can find is that he is the person whose
name is on their tax form 990 he's not
someone we can find political lectures
on YouTube from how is it possible for a
multi-million dollar organization so
prominently featured in the news on a
daily basis in the year 2020 to remain
fundamentally mysterious both about what
it does and what it's trying to do now
I'm putting the emphasis on point to
they're all social movements are
aspirational in nature and most charity
fundraising is aspirational in issue I
think it's completely fine morally
ethically politically to come out and
ask for donations and ask for support
and try to sell t-shirts with your logo
on it when all you have to sell is the
idea of making the world a better place
that's what many of us have to do it is
a little bit strange than in the year
2020 black lives matter
wants to sell you a t-shirt with their
logo on it for $30 when they received a
headline-grabbing donation of 100
million dollars in 2016
full disclosure when I received my first
payment from YouTube for just one
thousand dollars I decided to spend it
giving my viewers t-shirts for free I
printed t-shirts with my channel's logo
and I asked them just to face shipping
and handling I literally showed them the
receipt from the post office for exactly
how much shipping handling was to send
the t-shirt to them wherever they were
I gave away a t-shirts for free when I
had earned just one thousand dollars if
you have received one hundred million
dollars I think many of your supporters
would be in a position to ask where are
the free t-shirts or at least couldn't
this t-shirt be $15.99 instead of $30
this may seem shallow but it's really
quite profound organizations like peda
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals
they began in pursuit of a definite set
of objectives but then with the passage
of time the pursuit of self-promotion
the pursuit of news coverage the
promotion such as selling t-shirts took
over more and more of what the
organization did to the extent that no
matter how many millions of dollars they
have it seems that peda is in the
business of absolutely nothing other
than a nothing more than promoting petaa
whether that be news appearances
t-shirts or what-have-you
in record time and with a remarkably big
budget something similar happens to
black lives matter in the United States
and it's a shame because to disclose my
own bias I do think there's a really
important message to be communicated
here I do think there's a really
important idea for a movie
that could have existed but already now
in 2020 we have to look back at the last
four years and say where did all that
money go where did the budget go and
where did all that potential go the
pent-up passion and interest and
engagement of millions of people
throughout the country and around the
world and now looking ahead we have to
ask with all due scepticism what is
supposed to happen next
now one important footnote here when you
talk about a hundred million dollars
that's what newspapers put in their
headlines there's another eye watering
some of thirty three million dollars
from George Soros to black lives matter
all right these numbers as with certain
types of government budgets like when
President Obama would announce so many
billion for one social program another
sometimes you're looking at money that's
going to be paid in installments
over several years sometimes you're
looking at money that's put into an
endowment like it could be a hundred
million sitting in an endowment and then
they're given a hundred thousand year I
don't know absolutely nothing in form
990 for black lives matter it makes
sense with this whatsoever but apart
from what actually is being done with
them apart from the question of where
the money went
it's even more peculiar to try to puzzle
out what was the cause that anyone was
donating running to four years ago and
what cause now does this organization
represent four years ago they had a
manifesto on their website and I made a
YouTube video here discussing point by
point what that manifesto said and what
it left unsaid and criticizing it I
think in a fair and open-ended way
saying look this is not the way to
define organization this is not the way
to write a constitution explaining what
it is you're going to do and what you're
not going to do and warning that this
would lead to real problems in the
future for the organization today
that manifesto has been deleted from
their own website not just the page was
uploaded to the time there is no trace
of that manifesto for black lives matter
more there is no definition no
Constitution there is no text anywhere
on the website that defines for you who
they are what they're doing where your
money will go what it is even that
they're trying to accomplish now the
organization has existed for enough
years that you can judge them by their
past accomplishments by what they have
done to some extent however they define
themselves as a leaderless organization
that does not attempt to control or
direct the black lives matter movement
they do with some vague language clean
credit for some things that have
happened but whenever I look into the
details I can't see that black lives
matter at the actual organization the
actual charity that was nutrition I
can't see that they did anything that
they were involved in any way whatsoever
I'm gonna give just one example but this
is telling there was a shooting in
Inglewood and it was a black man and a
black woman who had been out in a date
and apparently they passed out drunk in
their own car at the end of the state
they were asleep in the car and they had
a gun
it is not actually clear to me if it was
a handgun or a rifle on their lap one of
the two persons laps while they were
lying there asleep
the police were alarmed it's also not
clear to me if the car was actually in
position where they need to move the car
out of the way there are some details I
don't know what none of these deer
produce that shooting eventually ensues
after they managed to rouse these two
people out of their sleep for drunken
stupor and by the way the autopsy
confirms that they were extremely
intoxicated
it was alcohol not some other exotic
drug that was involved and both of these
people were shot dead a ludicrous number
of bullets were put into the car and put
to them ultimately so a very saddening
shocking event however even from the
outline of that story you can imagine it
would be a much much more difficult case
to take to court like to charge the
police with homicide or even
manslaughter given those circumstances
if these were two people who had a gun
in a car or refusing to come out of the
car and I don't know if shots were fired
in both right I can you really don't
know as much is reading to us there are
claims on the internet attributing the
public interest in this event and the
protests and even vaguely attributing
the success of a lawsuit connected to
the deaths of these the wrongful deaths
these two people two black lives matter
and when I see that I think right away
okay well this is an organization with
millions of dollars there's no reason
this is a large theme as powerful
organization did they hire the lawyer
like did they was it their case you know
in the same way that other large
well-funded organizations actually bring
forward legal fees I couldn't find any
trace of that whatsoever the only
connection between black lives matter
was an organization in this case I could
find anywhere on the Internet
was a very short post text post on the
black lives matter website with a link
to a petition for people to sign to
raise awareness know the actual phrase
black lives matter I'm certain appeared
on posters and placards and people who
did protest connected to the deaths
I'm sure it's become a very popular
phrase but if you're donating to this
organization if like George Soros you're
giving them thirty three million dollars
and all they're doing in connection to
this case is putting a short text post I
mean if you have millions of dollars you
could make a documentary film about this
you could do a lot of things to raise
awareness right the same even if you're
talking about a organization like pedo
which I'm a critic of pet that doesn't
just put something on their web site
they'll go out and do education programs
in schools they'll I have ever dozen
companies there are a lot of things you
can do if you have known as dollars but
including actually hiring lawyers and
pursuing a case there is this vague
sense in which black lives matter as an
organization is given credit for the
outcomes in these situations when there
are protests or when there is a lawsuit
and the lawsuit is even successful in
favor of the black people who are slam
about police and I can't just say it's
not clear to me that the organization
did anything at all on the contrary what
I've said you as even investigating this
hoping to find something I can give the
organization credit for I wish I could
come here on camera and say to you they
don't just sell t-shirts they don't just
paint their logo on race cars at NASCAR
they don't just do this kind of
promotion that they really are out there
doing important things in these court
cases or even in these protests but I
have to tell you I haven't seen a single
example where there's something tangible
that they're doing with again more than
133 million dollars of charitable
support a seemingly bottomless budget
and unbelievable level of sincere public
interest and enthusiasm a lot of people
looking to this this organization for
leadership and hope and they themselves
say in response to this again again what
they say is they don't provide
leadership they're not leading
organization rather than using the word
leaderless they have this cute word
leader full we're a leader for whom we
let everyone lead themselves and as bad
as the constitution of the movement was
I made a youtube video about more than
three years ago to say as bad as their
constitution was as bad as the old
definitions were at least that provided
some definition of who these people were
and what they're trying to accomplish
again when I google the name of the man
who is quite literally the leader of the
organization according to their tax
filings I can't find a trace of who this
is or what he believes or what he's
trying to accomplish I understand the
aesthetic appeal of claiming to be a
horizontal organization a decentralized
organization and a cephalus organization
a leaderless
I understand the a Galit Aryan appeal of
just saying will anyone anywhere can
take a permanent marker and a piece of
cardboard and write black lives matter
on it and they're somehow participating
in and are part of this movement but
guess what ultimately there is a bank
account that this money is being paid
into alright when somebody pays $30 for
that t-shirt it's not the case that a
few pennies go to each person or each
chapter around the world you know
ultimately there is a question of
personal responsibility financially and
there's a question of leadership in
terms of the unbelievable lost potential
looking back at the last four years and
now we really have to ask ourselves
about the lost potential in the next
four years